The Project Gutenberg eBook of Chinese vs. Negroes as American Citizens, by
Samuel Raymond Scottron

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Chinese vs. Negroes as American Citizens

Author: Samuel Raymond Scottron

Release Date: May 27, 2021 [eBook #65455]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Donald Cummings, hekula03 and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by the Library
             of Congress)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHINESE VS. NEGROES AS AMERICAN
CITIZENS ***




                          CHINESE vs. NEGROES

                             .... AS ....

                          American Citizens.




MR. SCOTTRON’S VIEWS

On the Advantages of the Proposed Negro Colonization in South America.

AN INTERESTING DISCUSSION.

Says Negro Possesses Qualities That Render People Readily Assimilable
Into the Body Politic.


The following letter and paper by S. R. Scottron, a member of the
School Board and one of the best known and most highly esteemed
Afro-Americans in Brooklyn, will be of interest at this time:

    To the Editor of the Brooklyn Eagle:

    The article published in the Eagle Sunday last, “Talks of
    Tropical Colonization,” with Mr. Alleyne Ireland, is certainly
    very interesting reading, bearing upon a subject that must
    engage the attention of thoughtful Americans. Mr. Ireland,
    however, seems to have assumed that the government will be
    obliged to continue the employment of Asiatic races in the
    development of the newly acquired territory in the Pacific.
    Taken in connection with what appears in to-night’s Eagle,
    wherein appears an account of an interview with Senator M. C.
    Butler, recommending that the negroes of the United States be
    colonized in South America, these articles seem to warrant
    my offering to the Eagle an article prepared before the
    publication of the aforementioned interviews, bearing upon the
    same subject, and offering what I may be permitted to assume
    a better solution of the subject of colonization, since it
    will serve a double purpose, covering the suggestions of both
    distinguished gentlemen.

                                                  S. R. SCOTTRON.

    Brooklyn, N. Y., 598 Monroe street, September 19, 1899.




Newly Acquired Territory Presents a New Problem to the American People.


“The rather unusual activity of lawless persons throughout the country
of late, especially the lynching element, has started anew a flood
of opinions and discussion of what is termed the ‘negro problem.’
As of yore, diverse opinions, sometimes diametrically opposite, are
expressed. There is one striking likeness in all, however, and that is,
the evident belief of the writers that each has discovered the panacea
for the great negro ‘affliction.’ The virtues and vices of the negro
are discussed at length, all seeming to forget that there is nothing
especially remarkable in negro humanity differing from the balance of
mankind under the same circumstances. He is ignorant, dirty, vicious
and lazy, or, intelligent, clean, peaceful and thrifty under precisely
the same circumstances that affect the balance of mankind.

“I doubt very much whether there is any such thing as an unsolved
‘negro problem,’ since the negro was granted the same rights and
privileges as others enjoy under the Constitution. There certainly was
a problem before that, but when the government clothed the negro with
the full rights of freemen the problem was solved, and there remains
now but to allow the slow process of time to adjust ourselves to the
situation.

“The negro is a citizen of the United States, invested with the
suffrage, guarded by the most solemn and positive safeguards, and the
nation will never turn back the pages. And all that now remains, as
said, is to adjust ourselves to these unalterable conditions. The age
of miracles is probably past, certain it is that this is not an age
of miracles; hence, we do not look for the elevation of a despised
and formerly enslaved race to the full plane of its surroundings in a
day, nor in any time short of that usually required to elevate mankind
generally. The process seems slow and discouraging except, possibly, to
those who have lived long enough to comprehend the changes that have
been wrought over a period of many years. Remarkable advancement has
been made by the whole people since the proclamation of freedom was
issued, and we should be well satisfied that on every hand progress is
reported and manifest.

“Whatever may be the treatment accorded the negro, he nevertheless,
recognizes the fact that his condition is an improvement upon the
condition which might have been his had his progenitors remained in the
shade of the Dark Continent. Reckoning over a period of two hundred
and fifty years, he has been much the gainer and has no disposition to
return to his ancient condition. He has now passed the problematic
stage; there is nothing doubtful, untried or unsolved in his case. His
is an open book.




Dewey’s Work.


“But a new problem, by the fortune of war, now confronts the American
people. A new volume was unexpectedly opened on that Sunday morning
when Dewey passed the gates at Cavite, and its pages have become the
more perplexing as the glory of that day fades in the distance. The
negro welcomed the day when the American people gave evidence of the
fact that they recognized that the negro problem had been solved, and
other subjects occupied their minds. When free trade vs. protection,
honest money vs. free silver, became the chief topics of discussion,
it was an assurance to the negro of the end of a long drawn out
discussion, which had served to keep him upon the surface of a troubled
sea. The hour has come when he may sit somewhat complacently in his own
secure place in the nation and discuss the desirability of admitting
other races to the full enjoyment of American citizenship, and it is to
be hoped that his own experience will tend to clarify the atmosphere
surrounding him and enable him to deal justly by and be merciful to
others, situated in many respects in a position which was once his own.

“The question now before us is how best to serve the nation’s interests
in the disposition of or employment of the negro? I believe I can best
illustrate the question by instituting a comparison between the negro
and the races of men that the fortune of war has placed under our care.




Chinese Versus Negroes.


“Under the above caption, in 1891, for some reason which I at this
moment do not recall, the Boston Herald was giving in its editorial
columns considerable attention to the discussion, ‘Chinese vs.
Negroes.’ Several articles appeared in it, justifying its opinions,
when occasionally they were disputed by other journals, foremost among
which I noted the Boston Journal.

“I recall the matter now because the negro is the recipient of much
attention, as before referred to, and because circumstances confronting
our government at this time render the subject of extreme importance.
Since then the United States has acquired territory very largely
inhabited by Chinese and other Asiatic races, and the question becomes
important immediately to the American people as to what policy shall be
pursued in the future with reference to these races.

“Shall the attempt be made to assimilate and ingraft these upon our
tree, or shall they be replaced by negroes?

“Were the fears which moved the American people in the past to exclude
Asiatic races justified, or have we seen a new light? Is Christian
civilization endangered by the presence of these people? All are potent
questions at this time, requiring sound judgment and unerring decision;
for we are not building for a day a temporary house, but one which it
is hoped shall endure forever.

“What may have been the questions which occupied the attention of the
American people in the past in regard to the negro as a fit subject for
assimilation within the body politic, there can be but little or no
good reason for continuing those discussions now. Since the negro is
already admitted to citizenship, guarded by constitutional enactment,
and, whatever may be the difference of opinions as to his mental
capacity, as compared with the Caucasian or Asiatic, there nevertheless
remains the gratifying fact that no one has attempted to prove that his
presence is in the least threatening to our Christian institutions.
Indeed, it may be said, upon the other hand, that many thoughtful
persons regard the negro’s presence as a comforting assurance, a
bulwark for the preservation of the faith of the founders of our
government.”

Writing now from memory, not having a copy of any of the articles
referred to as having appeared in the Boston Herald, I will briefly
outline as best I can their import. The position taken by the
editor was not new, but one assumed by many able persons in similar
discussion. “The Chinese,” he says, “are an ancient race, with a
civilization antedating our own; largely progressed in the arts and
sciences; having made many important discoveries before our own age.
While on the other hand, the negro comes from the wilds of an unknown
continent, a barbarian, a slave, mean of intellect and of forbidding
mien, with thick lips, black face, flat nose and woolly hair; who has
not in the interval of time shown the high capacity of the Caucasian
for improvement.

“The fathers of the republic,” he further says, “while providing an
asylum for the oppressed of other lands, nevertheless were desirous of
attracting hither only the most intelligent peoples, depending upon
these rather for the perpetuity of republican institutions.” But, as
we have said, the negro has been already admitted to citizenship, and
the question closed in one of its aspects; so that the only question
remaining for us to consider is, what I may regard as a corollary
to the first proposition, viz.; negroes having been admitted to
citizenship, shall we not now admit the Chinese? If the semi-barbarous
negro can be ingrafted upon our body politic, can we not safely extend
to these Asiatic races, having centuries of civilization behind them,
the same privileges?

Had we not an actual experience with the two races, covering a period
sufficient to form a safe judgment, we would very likely jump at
a conclusion in answer to the last question and decide it in the
affirmative. Experience, however, is a safe teacher.

The difference between the Chinese and negroes is as that between old
men, with fixed ideas, and children. If we have ideas and institutions
to perpetuate and preserve, we shall entrust and communicate them to
children rather than to those grown old in an opposite philosophy and
experience. The new born mind is a blank, ready to receive impressions
and to develop largely according to its surroundings. Early impressions
may never be lost.

The minds of the American negro and the American Indian, considered
as adults, were the only maiden minds among all those present in the
early days of the colonies and the formative period of the republic.
By maiden minds I mean blank minds; minds never before impressed with
any phase of civil government; minds ready to receive new impressions;
ineradicable impressions. The American negro has never known anything
save those things distinctly American. We may have various opinions as
to the desires of the forefathers of our republic, and we may differ
on many other points, but it may be very safely asserted that we will
all agree that, notwithstanding their desire for the preservation of
religious freedom, it was, nevertheless, their aim and hope, and it
is the aim and hope of their children and grandchildren to found and
perpetuate a government immovably fixed upon Christian principles and
philosophy. Has it ever occurred to our friend’s mind that the presence
of the negro is threatening to that central thought? On the other hand,
what of the Chinese?

As we have said, the negro came with his mind a blank, with no
preconceived opinions as to forms of government, no attachment to
a foreign flag or institutions. No flag, only the American flag;
no home save America. The faith of the fathers is his faith.
Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson and Grant, his highest conceptions
of human greatness. Concord, Lexington and Bunker Hill the shrines
of his patriotic pilgrimages. Christ his only refuge in religion.
The Sunday of the forefathers his holy day, the Fourth of July his
highest patriotic reverence. Christmas and Eastertide his hours of
holy reflection. The machinations, seditions and conspiracies of the
socialist, communist and anarchist his greatest aversion.

Religious freedom is the law of the land, and yet the most superficial
observer is aware that our whole fabric, our whole structure is builded
upon Christian philosophy. It is stronger than the written law; upon
it is founded the whole law and order of society. It was the faith of
the forefathers and upon its philosophy and reasoning was and is based
every act, every constitutional engagement, every personal property
and public right. These institutions could not have been evolved from
minds immersed in centuries of Buddhism, nor can they ever be more
than dimly perceptible to its children. Has any one ventured to indict
the negro for lack of sympathy for the Christian faith? Of all the
people possibly the negro lives nearest the faith of the founders of
this government. Of the 50,000 Chinese settled in the City of San
Francisco for many years, upon how many has Christianity made the least
perceptible impression? There Buddha and Confucius still live.

Maltreat the negro as you may, he is nevertheless American to the core
and he will follow the flag wheresoever it leads, Santiago and San Juan
Hill he will rush upon to the inspiring strains of “Yankee Doodle” and
“The Star Spangled Banner,” insensible to every danger.

Socially ostracise the negro, make rules that bar him from the orders
of Masonry, Odd Fellowship and the many American institutions and he
will immediately turn up possessed of signs, tokens and passwords of
these orders, fully caparisoned and equipped, bound to be an American.
The curled lips, flat nose and crispy wool, which were such powerful
arguments against the negro in our Boston editor’s mind, need not be
taken into account when the flag is endangered or its supremacy to be
upheld. He had shown the quality of his mind by coming out first in
many a college contest; the deftness of his fingers proven whenever
an opportunity has been given him. The wage paid him has gone into
circulation again for things distinctively American, his savings
invested in an American home and not hoarded up to be sent abroad to
enrich other countries.

The doctrines of Spiess, Parsons and Herr Most have never found
lodgment in a negro breast, and should the day ever come that Beacon
Hill or Murray Hill shall be threatened by the disciples of anarchy,
the sword of the commonwealth may be placed in the hands of every
negro, without question, for the salvation of our institutions, pure
and simple, as handed down from the earliest days of the republic; and
it may again be said, as of old, that “the stone which the builders
rejected had become the chief corner stone of the temple.”

Indeed, the negro has shown that he possesses all the qualities that
render a people readily assimilable into the body politic, and he has
shown these qualities under most adverse circumstances; workshops
closed to him, despised, proscribed socially, absolutely barred and
deprived of all those helps accorded all other races by the American
people, he has nevertheless risen to the full dignity of a most
trusted and intelligent citizen, only too eager, possibly, to be found
foremost in expressions and acts of patriotic devotion. So well has he
succeeded that he can afford to rest his case, feeling assured that the
people will in the end deal justly by him. He has reached that exalted
place of life which prompts him not to unjustly criticise other races
anxious, like himself, to become a part of this great nation; nor to
make any odious comparisons unless compelled in his own defense when
unjustly assailed. His home is wherever the American flag is unfurled
and he will cheerfully give his whole self to the development of every
inch of territory acquired by his government.


       *       *       *       *       *


 Transcriber’s Notes:

 ――Punctuation and spelling inaccuracies were silently corrected.

 ――Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHINESE VS. NEGROES AS AMERICAN
CITIZENS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
